'In Java programs, classes are the basic building blocks. When defining a class, you describe all the parts and characteristics of one of those building blocks.
To use most classes one has to create objects. An object is a runtime instance of a class in memory. An object is also referred to as an instance since it represents a single representation of the class. All the various objects of all the different classes represent the state of your program. A reference is a variable that points to an object

### Fields and Methods

Java classes have two primary elements:
- **fields**: more generally known as variables.
- **methods**: often called functions or procedures in other programming languages
Variables hold the state of the program and methods operate on that state, if the change is important to remember a variable stores that change. It's our job as programmers create and arrange these elements in such a way that the resulting code is useful and easy for other programmers to understand.

```
public class Animal {

	String name;
	
	public String getName() {
		return name;
	}
	
	public void setName(String newName) {
		name = newName;
	}	
}
```

### Comments

A common part of the code is called a comment. Comments are not executable parts of the code so you can place them anywhere
- **Single line comments** `// comment until the end of line`
- **Multiple line coments**:
``` 
/* 
* Multiple
* line comment
*/
```
- **Javadoc comment**:
```
/**
* Javadoc multiple line comment
* @author Johnny
*/
```

Javadoc comments have a specific structure that the javadoc tool knows how to read.

A top level class is often public, which means any code can call it. Interestingly, Java does not require that the type be public. For example:
```
class Animal {
	String name;
}
```
You can also put two types in the same file. When you do so only one of the top level types is allowed to be public.  For example:
```
public class Animal {
	private String name;
}

class Animal 2 {}
```
**If you have a public class it needs to match the filename**



