
A java program begins execution with its `main()` method.

#### **Creating a `main()` Method

The `main()` method lets the **JVM** call our code. The simplest possible class with a `main()` method looks like this:
```
public class Zoo {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello World!");
	}
}
```

The rules for what a Java file contains and in what order are more detailed. To keep things simple we will follow this subset of rules:
- Each file can contain only one public class.
- The filename must match the class name (case sensitive), and have a `.java` extension
- If the Java class is an entry point for the program, it must contain a valid `main()` method.

Let's first review the words in the `main()` method's signature, one at a time.
- **public**: is what is called an *access modifier*. The methods level of exposure to potential callers in the program. *public* means full access from anywhere in the program. We will learn more about ***access modifier*** in Chapter 5.
- **static**: binds a method to its class so it can be called just by the class name, as for example `Zoo.main()`. Java does not need to create an object to call the `main()` method. If a `main()` method doesn't have the right keywords, you'll get an error trying to run it. We will see ***static*** again in Chapter 6.
- **void**: represents the return type. A method that returns no data returns control to the caller silently. In general, it's good practice to use void for methods that change an object's state. In that sense the  `main()` method changes the program state from started to finished
-  **main() method parameter list**: represented as an array of `java.lang.String` objects. We can use any of these formats:
	- `String[] args`
	- `String options[]`
	- `String... friends`
The compiler accepts any of these. The variable name args is common because it hints that this list contains values that were read in (arguments) when the JVM started. The characters `[]` are brackets and represent an array. An array is a fixed size list of items that are all of the same type. The characters `...` are called varargs (variable arguments lists). 

>**Optional Modifiers in `main()` Methods**
>
>While most modifiers, such as ***public*** and ***static***, are required for `main()` methods, there are some optional modifiers allowed.
>
>`public final static void main(final String[] args) {}`
>
>In this example, both ***final*** modifiers are optional, and the `main()` method is a valid entry point with our without them.

### Passing Parameters to a Java program

How to send data to your program's `main()` method.
```
public class Zoo {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println(args[0]);
		System.out.println(args[1]);
	}
}
```
The code args`[0]` accesses the first element of the array. To run it type the following commands:
```
javac Zoo.java
java Zoo Bronx Zoo
```
The output is what you might expect
```
Bronx
Zoo
```
The program correctly identifies the first two words as arguments. Spaces are used to separate the arguments. If one wants  spaces inside an argument, needs to wrap the argument with quotes `java Zoo "San Diego" Zoo`. The output will be:
```
San Diego
Zoo
```

> **Single-file Source Code**
>
>If you get tired of typing both `javac` and `java` every time to you want to try a code example, there's a shortcut. You can instead run this:
```
java Zoo.java Bronx Zoo
```

>**What happens if you don't pass enough arguments**
>The Java program will work fine until it reaches the required argument that is not provided then Java panics and shows an exception telling you that is has now idea what to do with this argument.

If we run this command:
`java Zoo.java Zoo`
we will get this error
```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.ArrayInderOutOfBoundsException:
Index 1 out of bounds for length 1
at Zoo.main(Zoo.java:4)
```