Java comes with thousands of built-in classes, and Java needs a way to organise them by putting classes in packages. These are logical grouping for classes.
Suppose you try and compile this code:
```
public class NumberPicker {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Random r = new Random();
		System.out.println(r.nextInt(10));
	}
}
```
The Java compiler gives a helpful error that looks something like this:
`error: cannot find symbol`
This error could mean you made a typo in the name of the class. You double-check and discover that you didn't. The other cause of this error is omitting a needed *import* statement. A *statement* is an instruction, and *import* statements tell Java which packages to look in for classes. Since we didn't tell Java where to look for Random it has no clue.
Let's try this again with the import:
```
import java.util.Random;

public class NumberPicker {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Random r = new Random();
		System.out.println(r.nextInt(10));
	}
}
```
Now the code runs and it prints out a number between 0 and 9.

### Packages

Java classes are grouped into packages. The import statements tell the compiler where to look in to find a class.
Package names are hierarchical like the mail as well. The postal service starts with the top level, looking at your country first. We start reading a package name at the beginning too. For example, if it beging with `java` this means it came with the **JDK**, if it starts with something else, it likely shows where it came from using the website name in reverse like so: `com.wiley.javabook` tells us the code is associated with the `wiley.com` website.

### Wildcards

Classes in the same package are often imported together. You can use a shortcut to *import* all the classes in a package.

```
import java.util.*; // imports java.util.Random plus all the classes inside util

public class NumberPicker {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Random r = new Random();
		System.out.println(r.nextInt(10));
	}
}
```
In this example we imported *java.util.Random* and a pile of other classes. The * is a wildcard that matches all classes in the package. Every class in the `java.util` package is available to this program when Java compiles it.

The import method does not bring in child packages, fields or methods; it imports only classes directly under the package.

### Redundant imports

We've been referring to ***System*** without an import every time we printed text, and Java found it just fine. There's one special package in Java world called ***java.lang***. This package is special in that is automatically imported. You can type this package in an import statement but you don't have to.

### Naming Conflicts

One of the reasons for using packages is so that class names don't have to be unique across all of Java. This means that sometimes you'll want to import a class that can be found in multiple places. A common example of this is the Date Class. Java provides implementations of ***java.util.Date*** and ***java.sql.Date***.

>**If you Really need to use Two Classes with the Same Name**
>Sometimes you really want to use Date from two different packages. When this happens, you can pick one to use in the *import* statement and use the other's fully qualified class name, or you can drop both import statements and always use the fully qualifified class name.

```
public class Conflicts {
	java.util.Date date;
	java.sql.Date sqlDate;
}
```


### Creating a new package

Now it's time to create a new package. The directory structure on your computer is related to the package name. Suppose we have these two classes in the */tmp/* directory:

```
package packagea;

public class ClassA {}
```

```
package packageb;

import packagea.ClassA;

public class ClassB {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		ClassA a;
		System.out.println("Got it");
	}
}
```
When you run a Java program, Java knows where to look for those package names. in this case, running from */tmp/* works because both packagea and packageb are underneath it.o

### Compiling and Running Code with Packages

>**Compiling with Wildcards**
>You can use an asterisk to specify that you'd like to include all Java files in a directory. This is convenient when you have a lot of files in a package. We can write the command like this:

`javac packagea/*.java packageb/*.java`

However, you cannot use a wildcard to include sub directories.

### Compiling to another directory

By default, the `javac` command places the compiled classes in the same directory as the source code. It also provides an option to place the class files into a different directory. The `-d` option specifies the target directory.  For example if we want to compile the java files to the directory `compiled` we would do something like this:

`javac -d compiled packagea/ClassA.java packageb/ClassB.java`

We would get the bytecode in the `compiled` directory with the package structure preserved. Example: `compiled/packagea/ClassA.class`and `compiled/packageb/ClassB.Class`

To run the program we have to specify the class path so java knows where to find the classes. There are three options that we can use:
* `java -cp compiled packagea.ClassA`
* `java -classpath compiled packagea.ClassA`
* `java --class-path compiled packagea.ClassA`
