An Object is an instance of a class. In the following sections we look at constructors, object fields, instance initialisers, and the order in which values are initialized.

### Calling constructors

To create an instance of a class, all you have to do is write new before the class name and add the parenthesis after it. 
Example:
`Park p = new Park();`
First you declare the type that you'll be creating (Park) and give the variable name (p). This gives java a place to store a reference to the object, then you write `new Park()` to actually create the object.
```
public class Chick {
	public Chick() {
		System.out.println("in constructor");
	}
}
```
There are two key points to note about the constructor: the name of the constructor matches the name of the class, and there is **no** return type. You may see some methods like this:
```
public class Chick {
	public void Chick(){} // Not a constructor
}
```

The purpose of a constructor is to initialise fields, although you can put any code in there. Another way to initialize fields is to do so directly on the line on which they're declared. This example shows both ways:
```
public class Chicken {
	int numEggs = 12; // Initialise on line
	String name;
	public Chicken() {
		name = "Duke"; // Initialise on constructor
	}
}
```


### Reading and writing member fields

It is possible to read and write instance variables directly from the caller. In this example, a mother swan lays eggs:

```
public class Swan {
	int numberEggs;
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Swan mother = new Swan();
		mother.numberEggs = 1;
		System.out.println(mother.numberEggs);
	}
}
```
The "caller" in this case is the `main()` method, which could be in the same class or in another class. This class sets the `numberEggs` to `1` and then reads numberEggs directly to print it out. You can also read values of already initialised fields on a line initialising a new field.
```
public class Name {
	String first = "Theodore";
	String last = "Moose";
	String full = first + " " + last;
}
```

### Executing Instance Initializer Blocks

When we learned about methods, we saw braces (**{}**). The code between the braces is called a code block. Anywhere you see braces is a `code block`.
Sometimes code blocks are inside a method. These are run when the method is called. Other times code blocks appear outside a method. These are called `instance initializers` 

### Following the Order of Initialization

When writing code that initializes in multiple places, we have to keep track of the order of initialization. This is simple the order in which different methods, constructors or blocks are called when an instance of the class is created.
- Fields and instance initializer blocks are run in the order in which they appear in the file
- The constructor runs after all fields and instance initializer block have run.

Let's look at an example:
```
public class Chick {
	private String name = "Fluffy";
	{ System.out.println("setting field");}
	public Chick() {
		name = "Tiny";
		System.out.println("seting constructor");
	}
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Chick chick = new Chick();
		System.out.println(chick.name);
	}
}
```
Running this example prints the following:
`setting field`
`setting constructor`
`Tiny`
Let's have a look at what is happening here. We start with the `main()` method because that's where java starts execution, inside it we call the constructor `Chick`. Java creates a new object. First it initializes name to "Fluffy", then it executes the print line statement in the instance initializer, once all the fields and instance initializers have been run Java returns to the constructor. The constructor changes the value of name `"Fluffy"` to the name `"Tiny"` and on the next line it prints out another statement `"setting constructor"`. At this point the constructor is done and then execution goes back to the `println` statement under the Object creation.
Order matters for the fields and blocks of code. You can't refer to a variable before it has been defined.