'Java applications contain two types of data: primitive types and reference types. In this section, we discuss the differences between a primitive type and a reference type.

## Using primitive types

Java has eight built-in data types, referred to as the Java ***primitive types***. These eight data types represent the building blocks for Java Objects, because all java objects are just a complex collection of these primitive data types. A primitive is not an object in Java, nor does it represent an object. A primitive is just a single value in memory, such as a number or character.

### The primitive types

| **Keyword** | **Type**                             | **Min Value**  | **Max Value** | **Default value** | **Example** |
| :---------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ----------- |
| boolean     | true \| false                        | n/a            | n/a           | false             | true        |
| byte        | 8-bit integral value                 | -128           | 127           | 0                 | 123         |
| short       | 16-bit integral value                | -32,768        | 32,767        | 0                 | 123         |
| int         | 32-bit integral value                | -2,147,483,648 | 2,147,483,647 | 0                 | 123         |
| long        | 64-bit integral value                | $-2^{63}$      | $2^{63} - 1$  | 0L                | 123L        |
| float       | 32-bit floating-point integral value | n/a            | n/a           | 0.0f              | 123.45f     |
| double      | 64-bit floating-point integral value | n/a            | n/a           | 0.0               | 123.456     |
| char        | 16-bit Unicode value                 | 0              | 65,535        | \u0000            | 'a'         |

> **Is String a Primitive?**
>No is not, String is often mistaken for a ninth primitive because Java includes built in support for *String* literals and operators. ***String is an object, NOT a primitive***

Key points from this table:
- The **byte, short, int and long** types are used for integer values without decimal points
- Each numeric type uses twice as many bits as the smaller similar type. For example **short** uses twice as many bits as **byte** does.
- All of the numeric types are signed and reserve one of their bits to cover a negative range. For example, instead of a **byte** covering **0 to 255 (or even 1 to 256)**, it actually covers **-128 to 128**.
- A float requires the letter **f** or **F** following the number so Java knows it is a float. Without and f or F, Java interprets a decimal as a **double**.
- A long requires the letter **l** or **L** following the number so Java knows it is a long. Without an **l** or **L**, Java interprets a number without a decimal point as an **int** in most scenarios.

> **Signed and Unsigned: short and char**
> 	You should be aware that ***short*** and ***char*** are closely related, as both are stored as integral types with the same 16-bit length. The primary difference is that **short** is ***signed***, which means it splits its range across the positive and negative integers. Alternatively, ***char*** is unsigned, which means its range is strictly positive, including 0.
> 	
> 	Often, ***short*** and ***char*** values can be cast to one another because the underlying data size is the same.

### Writing literals

There are a few more thing we need to learn about numeric primitives. When a number is present in the code, it is called ***literal***. By default java assumes you are defining an int value with a numeric literal. 
To numbers in java outside of int or double you need to specify the type. For example:
- **Long** numbers are -> `long bigNum = 3123456789L;`
- **Float** number are -> `float floatNum = 0.1234F;`
- **Binary** numbers are -> `int binary200 = 0B11001000;`
- **Octal** numbers are -> `int octal200 = 0310;`
- **Hexadecimal** numbers are -> `int hex200 = 0XC8;`

### Literals and the underscore Character

The last we need to know about literals is that you can have underscores in numbers to make them easier to read, like so:
* `int million1 = 1000000;`
* `int million2 = 1_000_000;`
We would rather be reading the latter one because the zero's don't run together. You can add underscores anywhere except at the beginning of the literal, the end of the literal, right before a decimal point or right after a decimal point. 

### Using Reference Types

A ***reference type*** refers to an object (an instance of a class). Unlike primitive types that hold their value in the memory where the variable is allocated, references do not hold the value of the object they refer to. Instead, a reference "points" to an object by storing the memory address where the object is located, a concept referred to as a ***pointer***. Unlike other languages Java does not allow you to learn what the physical memory address is. You can only use the ***reference*** to refer to the object.
Let's take a look at some examples that declare and initialize reference types:
- Reference to a type **String** `String greeting;`
The greeting variable is a reference that can only point to a **String** object. A value is assigned to a reference in one of two ways.
* A reference can be assigned to another object of the same or compatible type.
* A reference can be assigned to a new object using the ***new*** keyword.
For example this statement assigns this reference to a new object:
`greeting = new String("How are you?");`
The *greeting* reference points to a new String object, "How are you?". The String object does not have a name and be accessed only via a corresponding reference.

### Wrapper Classes

Each primitive type has a wrapper  class, which is an object type that corresponds to the primitive. 
* primitives are not objects, and sometimes we prefer to work with objects
* each primitive has a wrapper class
	* an object type which corresponds to the primitive
* most common way to create an object from a primitive:
	* use static method `valueOf()`:
	* `Integer aNum = Integer.valueOf(5);`

| **Primitive type** | **Wrapper class** | **Wrapper class inherits number?** | **Example of creating**    |
| :----------------: | ----------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
|      boolean       | Boolean           | No                                 | Boolean.valueOf(true)      |
|        byte        | Byte              | Yes                                | Byte.valueOf((byte) 1)     |
|       short        | Short             | Yes                                | Short.valueOf((short) 1)   |
|        int         | Integer           | Yes                                | Integer.valueOf(1)         |
|        long        | Long              | Yes                                | Long.valueOf(1L)           |
|       float        | Float             | Yes                                | Float.valueOf((float) 1.0) |
|       double       | Double            | Yes                                | Double.valueOf(1.0)        |
|        char        | Character         | No                                 | Character.valueOf('c')     |
 
`valueOf()` can be used to convert String into wrapper class Integer:
```
Integer n = Integer.valueOf("12");
```
Wrapper classes can come with some useful methods like parsing a string to a primitive type:
```
int m = Integer.parseInt("101");
```
Before Java 9 you would get something like this:
```
Integer p = new Integer(5);
```
Wrapper classes offer many useful helper methods
`byteValue()`
`shortValue()`
`intValue()`
`floatValue()`
`doubleValue()`
`booleanValue()`
`charValue()`
Example:
```
Double dVal = Double.valueOf(314.67);
System.out.println(dVal.byteValue()); // 58 (wrap: 314-256=58)
System.out.println(dVal.intValue()); // 314
System.out.println(dVal.doubleValue()); 314.67
```

