A ***variable*** is a name for a piece of memory that stores data. When you declare a variable you need to state the variable type along with the name, when you giving it a value is called ***initializing*** a variable. To initialize it you need to type the variable name followed by an equal sign and followed by the desired value. Example:
```
String zooName = "The best Zoo";
```

### Identifying Identifiers

Java has precise rules about identifier names. An ***identifier*** is the name of the variable, method, class, interface or package.
There are four rules to remember for legal identifiers:
- Identifiers must begin with a letter, a currency symbol (**$, €**), or ( _ ) _ symbol.
- A single underscore _ is not allowed as an identifier.
- You cannot use any of the ***reserved words***. A ***reserved word*** is a special word that Java has held aside so that you are not allowed to use it. Java is case sensitive.
- Identifiers can include numbers but not start with them.
`abstract` `assert` `boolean` `break` `byte` `case` `catch` `char` `class` `const*` `continue` `default` `do` `double` `else` `enum` `extends` `final` `finally` `float` `for` `goto*` `if` `implements` `import` `instanceof` `int`  `interface` `long` `native` `new`  `package` `private` `protected` `public` `return` `short` `static` `strictfp` `super` `switch` `synchronized` `this` `throw` `throws` `transient` `try` `void` `volatile` `while` `true` `false` `null`

### Naming conventions

These are the main conventions in java:
* for variables camelCase
* for constants use SNAKE_CASE
* identifiers of **classes**, **interfaces**, **enums**, **records** start with first uppercase letter
	* **MyClass, MyInterface, StudentRecord**
* identifier variables and methods start with first lower case letter
	* **fullName, getFullName()** 

### Three kinds of variables
1. **local variables** - exist only within the block of code `{ ... }` 
2. **instance variables (fields)** - defined within the specific instance of the object
3. **class variables** - belong to a class and is shared with all instances of the class
	* marked with keyword ***static***
* instance and class variables don't require initialization
	* assume the default value of the type

#### !!! Local variables must be initialized before use !!!

```
public int doesNotCompile(){
	int a = 5;
	int b;
	return a + b; // does not compile, variable b is not initialized
}
```

```
public int doesCompile(){
	int a = 5, b = 3;
	int c;        // c is not initialized but is never used so it compiles
	return a + b; // will compile
}
```
#### !!! Be careful if initialization is within if statement !!!
```
public void doesNotCompile(boolean isOk){
	int a;
	if(isOk) {
		a = 5; // This code might never be reached and will not compile
	}
	// some code using a
}
```

```
public void doesCompile(boolean isOk) {
	int a;
	if(isOk) {
		a = 5;
	} else {
		a = 2;
	}
	// some code using variable a
}
```

#### final variables (constants)
```
final int MAX_HEIGHT = 100;
```
#### final can be applied to a reference;
```
final int[] MY_NUMBERS = new int[5];
// references cannot be modified, but the content of the object CAN
MY_NUMBERS = 13;      // OK
MY_NUMBERS = null;    // Does not compile
```
